Page Cache Settings
From the left sidebar, click Performance -> Page Cache. Scroll down to the Cache Preload box. Enable “Automatically prime the page cache”. Enter your sitemap URL. 

Note: You will need to have installed the Better WordPress Google XML Sitemaps plugin before this will function properly.


If you use a CAPTCHA on contact forms, you’ll want to include the path to these pages in the cache exclusion. Caching a CAPTCHA will break the functionality. Scroll down to the Advanced Setting box. Add your file path e.g. contacts here:


User Agent Groups

Because my theme is responsive, I cache mobile and tablet user agents separately. In other words, Varnish caches copies of various responsive layouts of my site. When a mobile user comes to the site, they get a specific file vs. when a desktop user arrives. If your site content is dynamically responsive (e.g. only changes in Javascript and CSS), you won't need to do this.  

If you wish to do this, enable High and Low User Agent Groups:


Referrer Groups

I also enable Referrer Groups for search engines:


Minify Settings
Minify compresses your HTML, JS and CSS code and combines files when possible. This speeds up delivery of your pages and reduces bandwidth. However, it can sometimes break theme code.

You may have to adjust the settings for your chosen theme. I found that by turning off inline CSS minification, my theme works well. From the left sidebar, click Performance -> Minify:


Importing Example Settings (Optional)
If you prefer to start by importing my settings file, follow these steps:

Download the example settings file
Visit the W3TC General Settings e.g. left sidebar, Performance -> General Settings and scroll to the bottom area with Import/Export Settings (see below).
Beside Import configuration, click Choose File and select the example settings file you downloaded. Then, click upload.
Browse your W3TC settings and ensure they make sense for your WordPress site.
You may need to customize settings for your site after the import e.g. Google PageSpeed, Amazon CloudFront CDN, etc.
